---
layout: post
title: "Blog 2"
description: "CIT 480 blog 2"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/09/06/
---
In this Blog 2 I want to talk about the "Fog Project".

Fog project is a free open-source network computer cloning and management solution that I got a chance to work with because of my work.

Fog project can capture, deploy and manage many desktop operating system including Windows, Mac OSX, and various Linux distributions.

It is easy to setup and completely free for commericial use. 

Installation is not to complicted; however, it only can be installed on on a computer running Linux.

They recommend installing it on CentOS or Debian based Linux distributions.

The first time I successfully installed and setup Fog Project on Ubuntu Operating System. Then, after  using it for a while, I installed CentOS 7 and moved Fog Project on it just for a learning experience. 

FOG does not use any boot disks, or CDs; everything is done via TFTP and PXE. 
All you need to do is boot your machine via PXE. Fog Server will issue a IP address via DHCP Server and your machine will be able to automatically download a small linux client doing all the hard work of imaging your machine.


FOG is more than just an imaging solution, FOG has grown into an imaging/cloning and network management solution.

* PXE boot environment (DHCP, iPXE, TFTP, fast HTTP download of big boot files like kernel and initrd)
* Imaging of Windows (XP, Vista, 7, 8/8.1, 10), Linux and Mac OS X
* Partitions, full disk, multiple disks, resizable, raw
* Snapins to install software and run jobs/scripts on the clients
* Printer management
* Change hostname and join domain
* Track user access on computers, automatic log off and shutdown on idle timeouts
* Anti-Virus
* Disk wiping
* Restore deleted files
* Bad blocks scan