---
layout: post
title: "Blog 4"
description: "CIT 480 blog 4"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/10/04/
---

Here is an example of line from shadow file.

root:$1$TDQFedzX$qn4Bxq8OjJSjrQCcgEOSO0:15045:0:99999:7:::

"root" is the username of the user.

"$#$" tells you the hash type.

For example,

$1$ is MD5

$2a$ is Blowfish

$2y$ is Blowfish

$5$ is SHA-256

$6$ is SHA-512

"TDQFedzX" is the salt.
"qn4Bxq8OjJSjrQCcgEOSO0" is the hash of (salt + password).

To write a script in python that can go through linux shadow file and crack a password is not too complicated.
First step is to import time and crypt Modules. You need time module to time how long it takes your script to crack a password.

* Start the time.

* Open shadow file from Linux OS.

* Use loop to go line by line through the file.

* Use if statement, if "$" is pressent in the string then it's an account of interest, otherwise skip.

* Split the string at first occurance of ":" and assign to "username" variable.

* Split string at second occurance of "$" and assign to "hashType" variable.

* Split the string at third occurance of "$" and assign to "salt" variable.

* Split the string at fourth occurance of "$" then split at first occurance ":" and assign to "hash" variable.

* Create variable "currentHash" that is equal to ('$' + hashType + '$' + salt + '$').

* Create a variable "hashPassString" that is equal to (currentHash + hash).

* Open dictionary file full of possible passwords.

* Use loop to go line by line throught the file.

* Use crypt.crypt to hash (password from dictionary file + hashPassString) and assign to a "possibleHash" variable.

* If "hashPassString" is equal to "possibleHash" then break the loop and print username and current password from file.

* Stop time.

* Subtract start time from end time and you will get your total time to crack a shadow file.










