---
layout: post
title: "Blog 3"
description: "CIT 480 blog 3"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/09/06/
---
Ansible Playbooks were new to me;however, I had great experience working on this lab.

At, first Ansible files were very confusing but I figured it out.

Ansible is a configuration management tool that automates the configuration of multiple machines by the use of Ansible playbooks. Ansible files are written in YAML. All files must have ".yml" format.

I pulled a docker container with ubuntu image and created my Ansible environment.

When you pull a Ubuntu container, it is barebone and is about 200 MB in size. To work with Ansible I had to install some tools. I used Ansible script to install necessary tools for further usage.

Here is portion of my script that installs some tools.

---
- name: Playbook2
  hosts: 127.0.0.1
  connection: local
  become: true
  tasks:
          - name: Install Tools, Install Apache & start the service
            apt: name={{ item }} state=installed
            with_items:
                    - nano
                    - curl
                    - zip
                    - git
                    - apache2

          - name: apache.conf file Part1
            lineinfile:
                   dest: /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
                   regexp: '^(.*)<Directory /var/www/>(.*)$'
                   line: '<Directory /var/www/public>'

Note that all Ansible file start with 3 dashes in the first line.

This script installs nano, curl, zip, git and apache2 server.  


One of the challenges that I faced was editing a config file. No matter what I did I could not replace some line with my desired output in the file. It took my a while but figured it out.

Here is the script that I used to edit config file.

          - name: apache.conf file Part1
            lineinfile:
                   dest: /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
                   regexp: '^(.*)<Directory /var/www/>(.*)$'
                   line: '<Directory /var/www/public>'

Note that regexp: finds the string that you want to replace. line: is the string that will replace the content of regexp:


