---
layout: post
title: "Blog 8"
description: "CIT 480 blog 8"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/11/2/
---

Terraform is an open-source infrastructure as code software tool created by HashiCorp. 
It enables users to define and provision a datacenter infrastructure using a high-level configuration language known as Hashicorp Configuration Language, or optionally JSON.

Let's talk about using Terraform to automate aws infrastructure setup.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
First install terraform.

Here are the steps to install terraform on Linux:

# Install unzip
* sudo apt-get install unzip

# Download latest version of the terraform (substituting newer version number if needed)
* wget https://releases.hashicorp.com/terraform/0.12.13/terraform_0.12.13_linux_amd64.zip

# Extract the downloaded file archive
* unzip terraform_0.12.7_linux_amd64.zip

# Move the executable into a directory searched for executables
* sudo mv terraform /usr/local/bin/

# Run it
* terraform --version 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to use terraform:

# Create files with ".tf" extension.
* vi main.tf

# Write your code in there.


Here is an example of terraform to deploy an EC2 Instance.

provider "aws" {

  region = "us-west-2"

}

resource "aws_instance" "example" {

  ami           = "ami-0c55b159cbfafe1f0"

  instance_type = "t2.micro"

}

When first starting to use Terraform, you need to run terraform init to tell Terraform to scan the code, figure out what providers you’re using, and download the code for them.

* terraform init

The plan command lets you see what Terraform will do before actually doing it.
* terraform plan

The apply command does everything that plan showed.
* terraform apply















