---
layout: post
title: "Blog 6"
description: "CIT 480 blog 6"
categories: [uncategorized]
tags: [random, jekyll]
redirect_from:
  - /2019/10/11/
---

Let’s talk about Ubiquti Systems.

I have successfully set up a network consisting on Ubiquiti Unifi devices.

Required devices:
* Unifi USG/USG Pro 
* Unifi Switch
* Unifi Cloud Key
* Unifi AP

Cloud Key is the Controller for the entire network. Once any changes are made to cloud controller then the controller, it will distribute the config to all appropriate devices making configuration centralized.

A single UniFi Controller running in the cloud can manage multiple sites: multiple, distributed deployments and multi-tenancy for managed service providers.

Both, USG and USG Pro 4 have a DHCP Server and Radius Server.
This enables users to use WPA Enterprise for their Wireless Network Security Type.

When it comes to creating the networks make sure you use "Corporate" option.
This option sets up IP range for DHCP to lease.
Also, this option uses IEEE 802.1Q
802.1Q, also known as VLAN tagging, is invaluable to limiting broadcast network traffic, and securing network segments. 
VLAN tagging is an integral part of networks of all sizes.

This will split your USG interface into multiple logical interfaces allowing each logical interface to have a IP from different VLAN.
This will ensure connectivity between vlans through the same intereface.

* Ideally, USG will connect to ISP Modem.
* USG will also connect to Unifi switch
* Switch will connect to all APs, the cloud key, printers and wired devices.